---
title: "Xbox Player Data overview"
description: "Xbox Player Data includes User Stats, Leaderboards, Achievements, and Featured Stats."
kindex:
- Player Data overview
- Xbox Player Data
- Xbox services, Xbox Player Data overview
- Xbox services, Player Data
- Xbox services, User stats
- Xbox services, Leaderboards
- Xbox services, Achievements
- Xbox services, Featured stats
author: joannaleecy
ms.topic: article
ms.localizationpriority: medium
edited: 00/00/0000
ms.date: '08/01/2022'
permissioned-type: public
---

# Xbox Player Data overview

## The Xbox Player Data Platform

Xbox Player Data enables your title to engage with the players in your game's community.
[Achievements](achievements/live-achievements-nav.md) reward players for accomplishments inside of your game, and incentivize exploring more of what your game has to offer.
[Stats and Leaderboards](stats-leaderboards/live-stats-leaderboards-nav.md) allow your players to track their progress and see how they stack up with their family, friends, and gamers around the world.

Xbox Player Data is also used to power many [Xbox services Social features](../community/live-social-overview.md) in the console shell and Xbox App, like Game Hubs, Rich Presence and [Featured Stats](stats-leaderboards/featured-stats/live-featuredstats-overview.md).

## Getting started with Xbox Player Data

Designing compelling [Xbox Experiences](live-designing-experiences.md) is the first step to connect your title with the gaming community.

## Configuring Xbox Player Data services: Event-Based vs. Title-Managed
  
There are two supported models that developers can choose between when writing Stats and Achievements from their title: event-based and title-managed. These are configured in the Xbox services settings in Partner Center.  
  
> [!NOTE]
> While you can change which configuration you are using for Stats and Achievements *prior to your title's release*, doing so will clear all existing data for that system!  
  
**Event-based** is a server-side processing model. Stat events are generated by the client and queued for upload to Xbox services. Once received, these events are aggregated or dispatched according to rules you define in Partner Center.  *This is the recommended option for Stats.*  
  
**Title-managed** is a client-side processing model. Your title has full control over how the data is processed, when it is sent to the server, and what action the server should take with that data. *This is the recommended option for Achievements.*  
  
It is ***not*** required that a title use the same model for both Stats and Achievements, and developers should feel free choose whichever best fits their usage for each system. It is recommended to choose Title-Managed Achievements for its simplicity in the game code, while making use of Event-Based Stats because of its deep integration with other Xbox services and to avoid needing to maintain custom aggregation logic.  
  
> [!NOTE]
> The Event-Based Achievements system **requires** event-based stats.  
  
For more information, and to help determine which models are right for your title, see [Event-Based vs Title-Managed Achievements](achievements/live-achievements-eb-vs-tm.md) and [Event-Based vs Title-Managed Stats](stats-leaderboards/live-stats-eb-vs-tm.md).  
  
## Options for titles in the Xbox Creators Program

Xbox Creators Program titles are not able to use achievements.

Xbox Creators Program titles can use the Title-Managed Stats system.

If you'd like to use Achievements or Event-Based Stats in your Xbox Creators Program title, consider applying to the [ID@Xbox Program](https://www.xbox.com/Developers/id).
  
## See also
  
[Achievements](achievements/live-achievements-nav.md)  
[Stats & Leaderboards](stats-leaderboards/live-stats-leaderboards-nav.md)  
  
