---
author: M-Stahl
title: "XStoreUnregisterPackageLicenseLost"
description: "Unregisters the specified store license lost callback."
kindex: XStoreUnregisterPackageLicenseLost
ms.author: shanede
ms.topic: reference
edited: 02/10/2020
quality: good
applies-to: pc-gdk
ms.date: '08/01/2022'
permissioned-type: public
---

# XStoreUnregisterPackageLicenseLost  

Unregisters the specified store license lost callback.  

## Syntax  
  
```cpp
bool XStoreUnregisterPackageLicenseLost(  
         XStoreLicenseHandle licenseHandle,  
         XTaskQueueRegistrationToken token,  
         bool wait  
)  
```  
  
### Parameters  
  
*licenseHandle* &nbsp;&nbsp;\_In\_  
Type: XStoreLicenseHandle  
  
The license handle the callback is associated with.  

*token* &nbsp;&nbsp;\_In\_  
Type: [XTaskQueueRegistrationToken](../../xtaskqueue/structs/xtaskqueueregistrationtoken.md)  
  
Token identifying the callback to be unregistered.  

*wait* &nbsp;&nbsp;\_In\_  
Type: bool  
  
Wait for any pending event callbacks to complete.    
  
### Return value
Type: bool
  
Returns false if *wait* is false and the callback is pending unregistration.
Returns true otherwise.    
  
## Remarks  
  
> [!NOTE]
> This function isn't safe to call on a time-sensitive thread.
> For more information, see [Time-sensitive threads](../../../../gdk-dev/console-dev/overviews/threads/time-sensitive-threads.md).  
  
This function unregisters the callback function defined by [XStorePackageLicenseLostCallback](xstorepackagelicenselostcallback.md).
Use the same **XTaskQueueRegistrationToken** generated by [XStoreRegisterPackageLicenseLost](xstoreregisterpackagelicenselost.md) to unregister the callback function.
To avoid a memory leak, each function registered with [XStoreRegisterPackageLicenseLost](xstoreregisterpackagelicenselost.md) must be unregistered by **XStoreUnregisterPackageLicenseLost** when the callback function is no longer needed.
  
See [XStoreAcquireLicenseForPackageAsync](xstoreacquirelicenseforpackageasync.md) for a usage example.  
  
## Requirements  
  
**Header:** XStore.h (included in XGameRuntime.h)
  
**Library:** xgameruntime.lib
  
**Supported platforms:** Windows, Xbox One family consoles, and Xbox Series consoles  
  
## See also  
[XStore](../xstore_members.md)  
[XStoreAcquireLicenseForPackageAsync](xstoreacquirelicenseforpackageasync.md)  
[XStoreAcquireLicenseForPackageResult](xstoreacquirelicenseforpackageresult.md)  
[XStoreIsLicenseValid](xstoreislicensevalid.md)  
[XStoreCloseLicenseHandle](xstorecloselicensehandle.md)  
[XStoreRegisterPackageLicenseLost](xstoreregisterpackagelicenselost.md)  
[XStorePackageLicenseLostCallback](xstorepackagelicenselostcallback.md)   
[Granting players access to add-on content](../../../../store/commerce/fundamentals/xstore-granting-access-to-content.md)  
  
  
