---
title: "XR-007 Cross-Network Play, Data Usage, and Companion App Interactions"
author: M-Stahl
ms.author: lukecr
ms.topic: article
description: "Presents the Xbox Requirement for game developers who add cross-network gameplay to their game."
kindex: XR-007 Cross-Network Play, Data Usage, and Companion App Interactions
edited: 06/01/2026
ms.date: '08/01/2022'
permissioned-type: public
---

# XR-007: Cross-Network Play, Data Usage, and Companion App Interactions 

Version 3.0, 06/01/2026 

Publishers are permitted to use user-specific data from Xbox services, Xbox consoles and other platforms on the Xbox network with the following limitations:

**Game progress, in-game items, and statistics**  
Titles can sync game progress, virtual currency (VC) wallets, and in-game items (including those unlocked with VC) across gaming platforms and networks. As part of user progress, a title can provide holistic statistic values, including the unlock of achievements, as long as those achievements don't require play using another platform.

**Microsoft Store Managed Entitlements**  
Digital Content or PDLC (such as map packs or content that provides additional gameplay) sold in the Microsoft Store or other platform stores must not be shared or roamed across gaming networks.

At the title’s discretion, bundles of in-game items (such as VC or items unlocked with VC) that are sold through the Microsoft Store and managed by the title may be shared or roamed across gaming networks.

If you offer content for purchase on another platform, network, or store, the following conditions apply:

Titles must:

  * offer the same or better for-sale content offers in the Microsoft Store to ensure that Xbox users aren't disadvantaged (including but not limited to release timing, market coverage, features, content such as bonus VC or bonus in-game benefits, language and localization, and physical token card offerings); and
  * include a corresponding offer in Microsoft's Digital Content at Retail program (Code to Content) if digital codes are sold direct to consumers.

Titles must not:

  * intentionally direct content purchases away from the Microsoft Store, or discourage purchases from the Microsoft Store (for example, through marketing, advertising, in-store products, or affinity programs).
  * offer such content for purchase in connection with products or experiences that don't have the same features and capabilities as the game for Xbox consoles. Player progression and game data can be shared with such products or experiences (for example, "companion experiences").

Failure to comply with any of the conditions of this policy may result in consequences, including but not limited to rendering your product(s) ineligible for editorial placement, store marketing and promotions.

**Cross-platform play**  
Titles can, at their discretion, enable synchronous or asynchronous cross-platform gameplay among Xbox network users on Xbox network enabled platforms.

**Cross-network and companion application play**  
Titles can, at their discretion, enable synchronous or asynchronous cross-network gameplay among Xbox network users and users of non-Xbox gaming networks subject to the following restrictions:

  * Titles must visually identify Xbox network users when they are playing with players from non-Xbox gaming networks.
  * Titles must restrict cross-network communication based on Xbox network safety settings, as detailed in [XR-015: Managing Player Communication](../XR/XR015.md) and [XR-045: Xbox network and Account Privileges](../XR/XR045.md).
  * Titles that require cross-network play must disclose this requirement in the title’s Products Detail Page (PDP) in the store.

**User-generated content**  
Beyond [XR-018: User-Generated Content](XR018.md), for non-Xbox network users, content must be:

* Anonymous and curated by the publisher.
* Displayed using the publisher's central account name when the content is created by a non-Xbox network user on a platform other than Xbox. To avoid confusion, ensure that this account name is clearly distinguishable from the user’s Xbox network account name. If the publisher account is linked to an Xbox network account, the title must display the Xbox network account together with the publisher account, even if the content is created on another platform.