---
title: "XR-001 Title Stability"
author: LukeCraw
ms.author: lukecr
ms.topic: article
description: "Titles must be compliant with Windows Store policy regarding Title Stability."
kindex: XR-001 Title Stability
edited: 04/01/2025
ms.date: '08/01/2022'
permissioned-type: public
---

# XR-001: Title Stability \*

Version 5.0, 11/01/2025

Titles must be compliant with Microsoft Store policies regarding title stability. The following policy applies to this requirement:

[10.4.2](/windows/apps/publish/store-policies#104-usability.md)  
Products must start up promptly, continue to run and remain responsive to user input. Products must shut down gracefully and not close unexpectedly. The product must handle exceptions raised by any of the managed or native system APIs and remain responsive to user input after the exception is handled.

## Certification Test Cases

The following table shows which XR-001 test cases apply to your title on console or PC.

Test Case | Applicable to Console | Applicable to PC
---------|----------|---------
001-01 Title Stability | Yes | Yes 
001-02 Title Stability After Suspending | Yes | No

### 001-01 Title Stability

**Test Steps**  
1. Sign in to an Xbox profile and launch the title.
2. Navigate all areas of the title, including but not limited to: 
   * Gameplay 
   * Menus and features
   * Downloadable content (DLC)
3. Using a new Xbox profile with no previous save data, repeat steps 1-3 while disconnected from the Xbox network.

**Expected Result**  
Title instability refers to any state where user input is not recognized, or the user is blocked from progressing due to a software crash without any user notification.  

**Pass Examples**  
 1. The title is stable.
 2. The title does not cause unintended loss of user data.

**Fail Examples**  
 1. The title crashes, becomes unresponsive, or causes a console reboot.
 2. The title causes the loss of user data. 
 3. A non-interactive pause or static screen is presented lasting over twenty seconds.
 4. The title contains a loading screen which is more than two minutes with no indication of progress.
 5. The title contains a loading screen which is more than three minutes with a progress indicator.

### 001-02 Title Stability After Suspend

On retail consoles, a game will be suspended under the following conditions:

   * When the console enters Connected Standby by being turned off with the power mode set to Instant-on.
   * When the game remains out of focus for ten minutes. For example, launching an application such as Settings and keeping it in focus for ten minutes.  

For the purposes of this test case, both methods should be verified at step 3.  

**Test Steps**

1. Sign into an Xbox profile with the console power mode set to Instant-on.
2. Launch the game and progress into gameplay.
3. At various points throughout game, suspend the game.
4. Resume the game and verify the user can continue from their last gameplay location.
5. Continue to the next save point, save the game, and return to the main menu.
6. Reload the save made in step 6 and make sure all progress is still present.
7. Repeat steps 3-6 throughout the game.  

**Expected Result**  
Title instability refers to any state where user input is not recognized, or the user is blocked from progressing due to a software crash without any user notification. Additionally, users must not lose any save progress after returning to gameplay.  

**Pass Examples**  

1. The game is stable and does not cause unintended loss of user data.
2. The game resumes from suspend and the user can immediately continue from their last gameplay location.
3. The game resumes from suspend and the user is prompted whether they want to resume from their last gameplay location.
4. The game resumes from suspend and returns to a previous menu or initial interactive state, however the user can load their last save location.
5. After suspending during online gameplay that requires online service connectivity, the game resumes and has returned the user to a previous menu or initial interactive state.
6. The game is terminated by the system as a result of connected storage de-synchronization.

**Fail Examples**  

1. The game is terminated as a result of a failure to suspend.
2. The game resumes from suspend and is terminated unexpectedly.
3. The game resumes from suspend and the user is unable to load their last save location.
4. The user is unable to re-establish a connection to partner-hosted services.