---
title: "XR-017 Title Ratings"
ms.author: danielwy
author: M-Stahl
ms.topic: article
description: "Describes the requirements of each rating board as it pertains to Xbox."
kindex: XR-017 Title Ratings
edited: 00/00/0000
ms.date: '08/01/2022'
permissioned-type: public
---

# XR-017: Title Ratings

## Contents

- [Title Ratings for Xbox](#title-ratings-for-xbox) (ratings, multi-generation releases, IARC, console logic, terminology)
- [Ratings Setup Guidance](#ratings-setup-guidance) (preorders, betas/previews, demos, trailers)
- [Table: Supported Ratings Boards](#supported-ratings-boards) (rating authorities supported by Microsoft)
- [Table: Global Ratings Display](#global-ratings-display) (ratings display on our digital store)
- Region-Specific Guidance:
  - Americas
     - [USA and Canada (ESRB)](#usa-canada-esrb)
     - [Brazil (DJCTQ)](#brazil-djctq)
     - [Chile (CCC)](#chile-ccc)
     - [Mexico (SMECCV)](#mexico-smeccv)
  - Europe
     - [Europe (PEGI)](#europe-pegi)
     - [Germany (USK)](#germany-usk)
     - [Russia (PCBP)](#russia-pcbp)
     - [Ireland (IFCO)](#ireland-ifco)
  - Asia
     - [China (CADPA), Hong Kong SAR and Macao SAR](#china-cadpa-hong-kong-macao)
     - [Indonesia (IGRS)](#indonesia-igrs)
     - [Japan (CERO)](#japan-cero)
     - [Saudi Arabia (Gmedia)](#saudi-arabia-gmedia)  
     - [Singapore (IMDA)](#singapore-imda)  
     - [South Korea (GRAC, GCRB)](#south-korea-grac-gcrb)
     - [Taiwan (DGSC)](#taiwan-dgsc)
     - [United Arab Emirates (NMA)](#united-arab-emirates-nma)
  - Africa
     - [South Africa (FPB)](#south-africa-fpb)
  - Oceania
     - [Australia (ACB)](#australia-acb)
     - [New Zealand (OFLC)](#new-zealand-oflc)
- [Timelines and Test Cases](#timelines-and-test-cases) (submission timeline guide by rating authority, Xbox requirement test cases)

<a id="title-ratings-for-xbox"></a>

## Title Ratings for Xbox

This white paper focuses on two essential concepts as they pertain to content classifications and restrictions on Xbox consoles:

-   **Rating:** Specifies the age level for which different types of content are deemed appropriate by different regions' ratings boards.
-   **Parental controls:** A profile setting on Xbox consoles that defines the highest rating level of content that a user can play or view within an application.

This document is centered around the requirements of each rating board as it **pertains to Xbox**. There are 2 different means of obtaining ratings:

-   **IARC** (International Age Rating Coalition) covers many markets when distribution is digital-only. Participation is free at the point of use and publishers complete a questionnaire in Partner Center to generate a rating.
-   **Rating certificates** are required for many markets when distribution is via physical disc. This is also referred to as obtaining 'long-form' or 'traditional' ratings.

### What are ratings?

Ratings are subjective classifications that are applied to titles or applications. In the context of Xbox consoles, ratings are based on a title or application's content and functionality, as well as user-generated content.

-   **Content:** A title or app's rating would take into account whether and to what extent its content includes things like violence, drug use, coarse language, nudity, or sexual activity.
-   **Functionality**: This would include such things as an app or title's social features, privacy, modes of interacting with social networks, loot boxes, reward systems for user logins or other pressures to play.
-   **User-generated content**: Ratings may take into account the nature of content accessible through the application that has been created by other users and whether any restrictions apply to user-generated content allowed by the app or title.

Ratings are one of the tools that customers and their families can use to monitor or restrict access to content that they consider to be objectionable or inappropriate for some or all family members. Without ratings, users wouldn't be able to make informed decisions about title or application content and could potentially be exposed to content they found inappropriate, unsafe, or otherwise objectionable.

### Content policies

Microsoft has store policies that prohibit offensive, pornographic, illegal, and other types of inappropriate content. We recommend reviewing both our current [content policies](/windows/apps/publish/store-policies#content-policies) and any specific exclusions that may exist in your licensing agreement with Microsoft.

### Multigeneration releases

When releasing your game simultaneously on multiple console generations (Xbox One and Xbox Series X\|S at the same time) or adding a generation later (adding a native Xbox Series X\|S binary) the process may vary by ratings board and region.  For specific questions related to handling multiple platforms/generations at launch or adding a platform, please contact the appropriate age rating authority directly. The following information is for general guidance only.

* Xbox Series X\|S is considered a new platform by most ratings authorities, requiring a separate ratings classification
    * If content is unchanged then most ratings authorities will classify a game for Xbox Series X\|S via their additional platform process (fees and conditions may apply)
    * If the content of your game has materially changed then most ratings authorities will require a full submission (fees and conditions may apply)
* Partners are responsible for ensuring all required age rating certificates are provided for review via Partner Center, failure to provide this may delay your submission
* If you have specific questions related to Microsoft tools or processes please contact your account manager

### About IARC

Administered by many of the world\'s game rating authorities, the International Age Rating Coalition (IARC) provides a globally streamlined age classification process for digital games and mobile apps, helping to ensure that today\'s digital consumers have consistent access to established and trusted age ratings across game devices.

This [Age Ratings](/windows/uwp/publish/age-ratings) page provides further explanation on implementation. For more detailed information on IARC and answers to Frequently Asked Questions, please visit <https://www.globalratings.com/about/>. To challenge a rating decision made by the IARC system, please use the link provided within Partner Center when the IARC rating is generated.

### Setting your rating in your product 

All ratings are set during the ingestion process in Microsoft Partner Center. Information is available [here](/windows/uwp/publish/age-ratings) on using IARC.  For manually rated products, the rating information and certificate uploads are handled in Partner Center. Ratings elements should not be declared in the AppXManifest whatsoever and as of May 11, 2020, this is cause for certification rejection. Content updates for existing titles that already have ratings declared in the AppXManifest can remain unchanged. It is permissible if you decide to remove the ratings element completely; the CU submission will not be rejected for this. We consider any post-final submission which has passed certification to be a content update. No longer declaring a ratings element within the AppXManifest allows for digital and physical disc ratings (at the time of the disc request in this case) to be pulled from Partner Center's age rating module and using the below hierarchy scenarios for reference, example #3 is the sought after instruction.

Hierarchy Scenarios  
As an example, let's say the ESRB rating is Teen generated from IARC in Partner Center. There are three scenarios:  
 
1.  AppXManifest Ratings are present and have content:<br/>\<mx:Ratings Category="application"\><br/>\<mx:Rating\>Microsoft:3\</mx:Rating\><br/>\</mx:Ratings\><br/>RESULT: Microsoft:3 will replace ESRB:T
2.  AppXManilfest Ratings are present and have no content:<br/>\<mx:Ratings Category="application"\><br/>\</mx:Ratings\><br/>RESULT: This will remove the ESRB:T rating and leave the content unrated
3.  There is no \<mx:Ratings\> element present<br/>RESULT: This will leave the ESRB:T in place

### How ratings are pulled

- Xbox digital store - These are pulled from what's entered in the age ratings module in Partner Center. This could be either IARC ratings or ratings which have been manually overridden and uploaded certificates for.
- Physical disc - The ratings you have overridden with long-form certificates and values for are pulled from Partner Center at the time of submitting a disc request. ONLY these overridden ratings are added to the disc. Ratings generated from IARC aren't included as they are only to be used for the digital store.
- AppXManifest - Declaring ratings within the AppXManifest is no longer permissible, but these used to be the ratings manually entered into the ratings element when compiling the build.
 
### Console ratings logic

- If the console is **online**, store ratings take priority over any ratings on the disc.
- If the console is **offline** and the AppxManifest has no ratings element, the console will use the ratings on the disc image which were pulled into the catalog.js file from Partner Center.
- If the console is **offline** and the AppxManifest has the ratings element, but some or all of the ratings are missing, the disc image ratings will be ignored and the console will treat the game as unrated in the regions with no AppxManifest ratings. 
- If the console is **offline**, but was previously online when the game was installed, then cached ratings from the digital store will be used (refreshed every 10 days).

### Ratings terminology

**Rating:** The high-level rating for the game is based on the substance of the game. Xbox consoles map its parental controls to the ratings of the respective ratings boards and prevents users from accessing content that is rated higher than allowed by the parental-controls setting on the console.

**Rating descriptors:** Specific details about the substance of a game that may be of particular interest to parents or guardians.

**Parental controls:** A setting on Xbox consoles that defines the rating level of the games that a user can play or view.

**Trailers/videos:** Videos playable within the Xbox console UI.

**Game add-on:** Content built by the publisher (i.e. DLC/downloadable content) that can be downloaded through the Xbox network and utilized by the underlying game. In general, simply downloading the game add-on content does not allow access to the content; the user must also have the underlying game to access the substance of the game add-on content.

**Catalog listing (store listing, game detail page/GDP, product detail page/PDP):** This is the "wrapper" for a game on the Xbox Store. It includes the ratings for a game, art assets such as box art and screenshots, localized titles and descriptions, and any game features.

**Demos, betas, and trial experiences:** Refers to the release of a portion of a game rather than the full title. These experiences, the purpose of which is to drive purchase intent, are limited in functionality and digitally distributed by publishers through the Xbox network.

<a id="ratings-setup-guidance"></a>

## Ratings setup guidance

### Pre-orders
Pre-orders for digital-only products are to display IARC-generated ratings. Pre-orders for products intended for physical release must display the rating assigned via the respective rating boards certificate. If that is not yet available, then the approach varies by rating authority; for example, the ESRB require that an RP rating (at the correct tier) is used whilst PEGI allow for an IARC-generated PEGI rating to be displayed with a "Provisional" designation.

### Betas/Game previews
Betas and Game Preview program titles are only available via Digital-only.  Based on this, IARC should be used in supported markets.  For non IARC regions, certificates would be required from regions where the content is to be released.  

### Demos
Digital-only regions should display IARC assigned ratings. Physical release regions must display the rating assigned via the respective rating boards certificate and if that is not yet obtained, rating pending should be selected. Any **free product** (including betas or demos) rated as CERO Z or IARC 18+ is **not allowed to release on Xbox in Japan** regardless of the distribution method.

The general principle for demos is that they should follow the rating of the main title. This means if the main game is rated as RP then so should the demo, and when a final rating is assigned to the main game the demo should then be updated to match that rating. For IARC regions, e.g. PEGI, a provisional IARC-generated PEGI rating is fine for the demo but (following the same logic) if PEGI then rate the physical release as different then the demo should be updated to match.

### Game trailers

Only UNRATED trailer is required to be uploaded to Partner Center. Microsoft will add the necessary age ratings 'pre-roll' to the trailer.
 
**Please note:** this exception is only for Partner Center and only for Microsoft Store PDP; any trailer that is not destined for the Microsoft Store product page must still display embedded rating information, where required, in accordance with the appropriate rating authorities guidelines.
 
Any game trailer showcasing CERO Z or IARC 18+ rated gameplay is **not allowed to release on Xbox in Japan** regardless of the distribution method.


## Ratings breakdown

<a id="supported-ratings-boards"></a>

### Supported ratings boards

Release Region(s) | Ratings Authority | Rating Pending |  Pre-Order | Ratings | Store Rating Values (JSON)
--- |            --- |             --- |             --- |         --- |              ---
Australia | ACB | Unrated  | Digital: IARC <br/>Physical: CTC (Check The Classification)    | G (Unrestricted)<br/>PG (Unrestricted)<br/>M (Unrestricted)<br/>MA 15+ (Restricted) <br/>R 18+ (Restricted) | COB-AU:G <br/>COB-AU:PG <br/>COB-AU:M <br/>COB-AU:MA<br/>COB-AU:R18
Brazil   | DJCTQ    | Unrated  | Digital/Physical: IARC     | L (General)<br/>6<br/>10<br/>12<br/>14<br/>16<br/>18 | DJCTQ:L <br/>DJCTQ:6 <br/>DJCTQ:10 <br/>DJCTQ:12 <br/>DJCTQ:14 <br/>DJCTQ:16 <br/>DJCTQ:18
Chile    | CCC  | 18+  | Digital/Physical: IARC | ER <br/>TE (All Ages) <br/>8+ <br/>14+ <br/>18+ <br/>RP <br/>UR <br/><br/>CCC ratings are mapped from ESRB ratings for both digital and physical products.  | CCC:ER <br/>CCC:TE <br/>CCC:8 <br/>CCC:14 <br/>CCC:18 <br/>CCC:RP <br/>CCC:UR
Europe (excluding Germany)   | PEGI     | PEGI Provisional (long-form ratings only)  | Digital: IARC <br/>Physical: PEGI Provisional | 3 <br/>7 <br/>12 <br/>16 <br/>18 <br/>! (Parental Guidance) <br/>3 Provisional <br/>7 Provisional <br/>12 Provisional <br/> 16 Provisional <br/>18 Provisional <br/><br/>PEGI Provisional can only be used for rating-pending titles which will receive a long-form PEGI rating. | PEGI:3 <br/>PEGI:7 <br/>PEGI:12 <br/>PEGI:16 <br/>PEGI:18 <br/>PEGI:! <br/>PEGI:3P <br/>PEGI:7P <br/>PEGI:12P <br/>PEGI:16P <br>PEGI:18P 
Germany  | USK  | Unrated  | Digital: IARC <br/>Physical: Rating pending      | 0 All Ages <br/>6 <br/>12 <br/>16 <br/>18 Not for Youth | USK:Everyone <br/>USK:6 <br/>USK:12 <br/>USK:16 <br/>USK:18 
Indonesia  | IGRS  | Unrated  | Digital/Physical: IARC | 3+ <br/>7+ <br/>13+ <br/>15+ <br/>18+ <br/>Refused Classification | IGRS:3 <br/>IGRS:7 <br/>IGRS:13 <br/>IGRS:15 <br/>IGRS:18 <br/> IGRS:RC
Japan    | CERO     | Unrated  | Digital:  IARC <br/>Physical: Rating pending | A <br/>B <br/>C <br/>D <br/>Z    | CERO:A <br/>CERO:B <br/>CERO:C <br/>CERO:D <br/>CERO:Z 
New Zealand  | OFLC  | Unrated  | Digital:  IARC <br/>Physical: CTC (Check The Classification) | G (Unrestricted)<br/>PG (Unrestricted)<br/>M (Unrestricted)<br/>R13, R15, R16, R18 (Restricted) <br/>RP13, RP16, RP18 (Restricted to Persons) <br/><br/>An ACB rating is acceptable for unrestricted games. A NZ rating is required for restricted games.  | OFLC-NZ:G <br/>OFLC-NZ:PG <br/>OFLC-NZ:M <br/>OFLC-NZ:R13 <br/>OFLC-NZ:R15 <br/>OFLC-NZ:R16  <br/>OFLC-NZ:R18 <br/>OFLC-NZ:RP13 <br/>OFLC-NZ:RP16 <br/>OFLC-NZ:RP18 
Russia   | PCBP     | Unrated  | Digital/Physical: IARC | 0+ <br/>6+ <br/>12+ <br/>16+ <br/>18+ <br/><br/>A PCBP self-rating based on the provided PEGI rating can be used.     | PCBP:0 <br/>PCBP:6 <br/>PCBP:12 <br/>PCBP:16 <br/>PCBP:18 
Saudi Arabia     | Gmedia     | Unrated  | Digital: IARC <br/>Physical: TBC | 3 <br/>7 <br/>12 <br/>16 <br/>18 <br/>21 <br/>TBC <br/><br/>New to market boxed games must show the Gmedia rating as part of the outer wrap artwork. IARC supports this region for digital distribution.   | GCAM:3 <br/>GCAM:7 <br/>GCAM:12 <br/>GCAM:16 <br/>GCAM:18 <br/>GCAM:21 <br/>GCAM:TBC 
Singapore    | IMDA/PEGI     | Unrated  | Digital:  IARC <br/> Physical:  IMDA | 3 <br/>4 <br/>12 <br/>16 <br/>18 <br/><br/>Physical game packaging must display an age rating; for games rated ADV16 or M18 this must be an IMDA rating (usually over-stickered), games rated below ADV16 may display a PEGI or ESRB icon on the packaging.   | PEGI:3 <br/>PEGI:12 <br/>PEGI:16 <br/>PEGI:18 
South Africa | FPB | N/A | Digital/Physical: IARC | PG <br/>7-9 PG <br/>10-12 PG <br/>13 <br/>16 <br/>18 <br/><br/>Microsoft store displays FPB rating if available, or PEGI for digital-only products. | <br/>FPB:PG <br/>FPB:PG7 <br/>FPB:PG10 <br/>FPB:13 <br/>FPB:16 <br/>FPB:18
South Korea  | GRAC/GCRB     |    Unrated  | Digital: IARC <br/>Physical: Rating Pending | All <br/>12 <br/>15 <br/>19 <br/><br/> Rating values must be used for outer wrap packaging and displayed in the Xbox store. Titles with an IARC-generated 19+ (restricted) rating will be auto-blocked from the Xbox Store as a traditional GRAC rating is required. Selecting Rating Pending will mean generic IARC ratings are shown on the Store. <br/>**Note:** In 2024, the GRAC restricted rating was changed from 18 to 19.| GRB:All <br/>GRB:12 <br/>GRB:15 <br/>GRB:19 
Taiwan   | DGSC     | Unrated  | Digital:  IARC (must register the title on the DGSC once rated by IARC) <br/>Physical: Rating pending | 0+ (General) <br/>6+ (Protected) <br/>12+ (PG12) <br/>15+ (PG15) <br/>18+ (Restricted)   | CSRR:G <br/>CSRR:P <br/>CSRR:PG12 <br/>CSRR:PG15 <br/>CSRR:R 
United Arab Emirates     | NMA  | Unrated  | Digital/Physical: IARC | 3 <br/>7 <br/>12 <br/>16 <br/>18 <br/>21 <br/><br/>New to market boxed games must show the NMA rating as part of the outer wrap artwork. Microsoft Store display of the NMA rating is not required as IARC supports this region for digital distribution.    | IARC:3 <br/>IARC:7 <br/>IARC:12 <br/>IARC:16 <br/>IARC:18 
US and Canada   | ESRB     | Rating pending: Everyone+, 13+ or 17+     | Digital:  IARC <br/>Physical: Rating pending | EC <br/>E <br/>E10+ <br/>T <br/>M <br/>Rating Pending <br/>Rating Pending Likely Teen 13+ <br/>Rating Pending Likely Mature 17+  | ESRB:EC <br/>ESRB:E <br/>ESRB:E10 <br/>ESRB:T <br/>ESRB:M <br/>ESRB:RPEveryone <br/>ESRB:RPTeen <br/>ESRB:RPMature 

<a id="global-ratings-display"></a>


### Global ratings display

Country/Region | Store Locale | Language | Ratings Board (Physical) | Digital Store Ratings | Rating Certificate Required for Physical Distribution | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
ALBANIA | EN-AL | Albanian | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
ALGERIA | FR-DZ | French | N/A | IARC Generic | Not currently | 
ARGENTINA | ES-AR | Spanish (MX) | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
AUSTRALIA | EN-AU | English | ACB/IARC | ACB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | An IARC rating can be used to obtain an approved tool certificate from the ACB for physical releases. Read country/region notes for more details.
AUSTRIA | DE-AT | German | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
BAHAMAS | EN-BS | English (US) | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
BAHRAIN | EN-BH | English | N/A | IARC Generic | Not currently | 
BELGIUM | FR-BE/ NL-BE | French/Dutch | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
BELIZE | EN-BZ | English (US) | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
BERMUDA | EN-BM | English (US) | ESRB | IARC Generic | Yes | 
BOLIVIA | ES-BO | Spanish | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
BOSNIA and HERZEGOVINA | BS-BA | Bosnian | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
BRAZIL | PT-BR | Portuguese | DJCTQ | DJCTQ <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
BRITISH VIRGIN ISLANDS | EN-VG | English | ESRB | IARC Generic | Yes | 
BULGARIA | BG-BG | Bulgarian | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
CANADA | EN-CA/FR-CA | English/French | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
CHILE | ES-CL | Spanish (MX) | CCC | CCC <br/>(mapped from ESRB) | Yes (See notes) | Chile uses a rating mapping solution to map from the ESRB. Physical product can be over-stickered with the CCC equivalent. Submitting to CCC is not required.
CHINA | ZH-CN | Chinese | N/A | IARC Generic | (See notes) | Game reviews are now conducted by the Central Bureau of Communications and Propaganda. Contact Microsoft representative for more information.
COLOMBIA | ES-CO | Spanish (MX) | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
COSTA RICA | ES-CR | Spanish | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
CROATIA | HR-HR | Croatian | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
CYPRUS | EN-CY | English (GB) | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
CZECH REPUBLIC | EN-CZ | English (GB) | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
DENMARK | DA-DK | Danish | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
ECUADOR | ES-EC | Spanish | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
EGYPT | AR-EG | Arabic | N/A | IARC Generic | Not currently | 
EL SALVADOR | ES-SV | Spanish | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
ESTONIA | EE-ET | Estonian | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
FINLAND | FI-FI | Finnish | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
FRANCE | FR-FR | French | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
FRENCH GUIANA | FR-GF | French | ESRB | IARC Generic | Yes | 
GEORGIA | EN-GE | English (GB) | PEGI | IARC Generic | Yes | Georgia is not an official PEGI region.
GERMANY | DE-DE | German | USK | USK <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
GREECE | EN-GR/EL-GR | English/Greek | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
GUAM | EN-GU | English | ESRB | IARC Generic | Yes | 
GUATEMALA | ES-GT | Spanish | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
GUYANA | EN-GY | English | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
HONDURAS | ES-HN | Spanish | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
HONG KONG SAR | EN-HK/ ZH-HK | English (GB)/ Chinese Trad. | PEGI | IARC Generic | Yes | 
HUNGARY | EN-HU | English (GB) | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
ICELAND | IS-IS | Icelandic | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
INDIA | EN-IN | English (GB) | PEGI | IARC Generic | Yes (See notes) | India is not an official PEGI region. However, physical/disc products usually use PEGI labels.
INDONESIA | ID-ID | Indonesian | IGRS | IGRS <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | In 2026, Indonesia joined IARC.
IRELAND | EN-IE | English | PEGI (See notes) | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | Ireland is a member of PEGI. Submission to IFCO is only required for PEGI 18 rated games being released physically in Ireland.
ISRAEL | EN-IL | English (GB) | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
ITALY | IT-IT | Italian | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
JAPAN | JA-JP | Japanese | CERO | IARC Generic (See notes) | Yes | Pick "No Rating Selected" in Partner Center.
JORDAN | EN-JO | English | N/A | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Not currently | 
KUWAIT | EN-KW | English | N/A | IARC Generic | Not currently | 
LATVIA | LV-LV | Latvian | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
LIBYA | AR-LY | Arabic | N/A | IARC Generic | Not currently | 
LIECHTENSTEIN | DE-LI | German | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | Liechtenstein is not an official PEGI region.
LITHUANIA | LT-LT | Lithuanian | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
LUXEMBOURG | FR-LU | French | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
MALTA | EN-MT | Maltese | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
MALAYSIA | EN-MY | English | N/A | IARC Generic | Not currently | 
MEXICO | ES-MX | Spanish | SMECCV | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes (See notes) | For physical products, Mexico uses a rating equivalency system that maps a SMECCV rating from an ESRB rating. Submitting to SMECCV is not required.
MOLDOVA | RO-MD | Romanian | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
MONTENEGRO | EN-ME | Montenegrin | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
MOROCCO | FR-MA | French | N/A | IARC Generic | Not currently | 
NETHERLANDS | NL-NL | Dutch | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
NEW ZEALAND | EN-NZ | English | OFLC | ACB <br/>(via IARC) (See notes) | Yes | Pick "No Rating Selected" in Partner Center. In circumstances where both an ACB rating and an OFLC rating are not available then a generic IARC rating will show for digital content for New Zealand.
NICARAGUA | ES-NI | Spanish | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
NORTH MACEDONIA | EN-MK | English (GB) | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
NORWAY | NB-NO | Norwegian | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
OMAN | EN-OM | English | N/A | IARC Generic | Not currently | 
PAKISTAN | EN-PK | English | N/A | IARC Generic | Not currently | 
PANAMA | ES-PA | Spanish | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
PARAGUAY | ES-PY | Spanish | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
PERU | ES-PE | Spanish | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
PHILIPPINES | EN-PH | English | N/A | IARC Generic | Not currently | 
POLAND | PL-PL | Polish | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
PORTUGAL | PT-PT | Portuguese (PT) | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
QATAR | EN-QA | English | N/A | IARC Generic | Not currently | 
ROMANIA | RO-RO | Romanian | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
RUSSIA | RU-RU | Russian | PCBP (Self-rated) | PCBP <br/>(via IARC) | Not currently | Russia uses a self-rating system. Whilst a rating certificate is not required, it is a legal requirement that either a PCBP rating icon or PEGI rating icon is displayed on the packaging.
SAMOA | EN-AS | English (US) | ESRB | IARC Generic | Yes | 
SAUDI ARABIA | AR-SA | Arabic | Gmedia | Gmedia <br/>(via IARC) | Yes (See notes) | Gmedia joined IARC in 2026. For physical products, it is recommended that ESRB is over-stickered with Gmedia.
SERBIA | EN-RS | Serbian | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
SINGAPORE | EN-SG/ ZH-SG | English (GB)/ Chinese Simp. | IMDA | IARC Generic | Yes (See notes) | IMDA rating to be shown on physical game packaging if rated ADV16 or M18. PEGI or ESRB is acceptable for games rated below ADV16.
SLOVAKIA | EN-SK | English (GB) | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
SLOVENIA | SL-SI | Slovenian | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
SOUTH AFRICA | EN-ZA | English (GB) | FPB | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | Pick "No Rating Selected" in Partner Center.
SOUTH KOREA | KO-KR | Korean | GCRB (<19), GRAC (19+) | GCRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | GCRB rates all content <19+. GRAC rate all 19+ content. Any digital content rated as 19 is required to be rated with GRAC. If RP selected, rating will be generic IARC.
SPAIN | ES-ES | Spanish | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
SWEDEN | SV-SE | Swedish | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
SWITZERLAND | DE-CH/ FR-CH | German/ French | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
TAIWAN | ZH-TW | Chinese Trad. | DGSC (Self-rated) | DGSC <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | Retail and digital products must display DGSC ratings. Read country/region notes for more details.
THAILAND | EN-TH | English | N/A | IARC Generic | Not currently | Video game rating systems have been proposed by the Ministry of Culture but do not currently exist.
TUNISIA | FR-TN | French | N/A | IARC Generic | Not currently | 
TÜRKIYE | TR-TR | Turkish | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | Türkiye is not an official PEGI region.
UKRAINE | UK-UA | Ukrainian | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES | AR-AE | Arabic | NMA | IARC Generic | Yes | Formerly UAEMC, MRO and NMC.
UNITED KINGDOM | EN-GB | English (GB) | PEGI | PEGI <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA | EN-US | English (US) | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
URUGUAY | ES-UY | Spanish | ESRB | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Yes | 
VENEZUELA | ES-VE | Venezuelan | N/A | ESRB <br/>(via IARC) | Not currently | 
VIETNAM | VI-VN | Vietnamese | N/A | IARC Generic | Not currently | 

Generic IARC ratings are used for the regions supported by the Microsoft Store that are not listed in the table above. 

## Rating boards and regions

<a id="usa-canada-esrb"></a>

### USA and Canada (ESRB)
----

*Authority:* Entertainment Software Rating Board

*Website:* <https://www.esrb.org>

*Game Ratings Search:* <https://www.esrb.org/search/>

*Contact Info:* <https://www.esrb.org/privacy/contact/>

|  Rating text                       | Audience |
|-|-|
| **EC (Early Childhood)**           | Ages 3 and older (retired)  |
| **E (Everyone)**                   | All ages  | 
| **E10+ (Everyone 10+)**            | Ages 10 and older | 
| **T (Teen)**                       | Ages 13 and older | 
| **M (Mature)**                     | Ages 17 and older | 
| **AO (Adults Only)**               | Ages 18 and older |
| **Rating Pending**                 | All ages    |
| **Rating Pending Likely Teen 13+**      | Ages 13 and older |
| **Rating Pending Likely Mature 17+**    | Ages 17 and older |

#### Requirements for downloadable content

If the **game add-on** content  (i.e. Xbox console DLC) which is required for base game play has a different rating than the core game, the publisher is required to obtain an updated rating from the ESRB and submit it along with the content. If the DLC rating is higher than the core game, the core game rating must be increased to match. If lower, the core game requires no additional action.   If the game add-on content is optional and the additional content differs from the rating or content descriptors previously assigned to the base product (i.e., a more restrictive rating category and/or different content descriptors), then the new rating information must be communicated to consumers in a location where it will be accurately associated with the downloadable content and cannot be bypassed 

#### Ratings process for code to content (C2C) cards

If the game will be sold (in any capacity) at brick and mortar stores, the publisher is required to obtain a ratings certificate from the ESRB. Contact your Microsoft representative for details.

#### Requirements for music game add-ons

The ESRB has stipulated that game add-ons for music games *must* contain the following text to ensure that users have the proper informed experience:

- **English:** (Online Music Not Rated by the ESRB)

- **French:** (Musique en ligne non classée par l’ESRB)

- **Spanish:** (Música en línea sin clasificación por parte de la ESRB)

#### Restrictions for game trailers

The ESRB considers trailers to be advertising material. Therefore, the following rule from the ESRB Advertising Review Council Manual applies to trailers:

> ***No advertisement should contain any content that is likely to cause serious or widespread offense to the average consumer.***

For example: An advertisement should not contain any graphic or extreme content that is likely to offend a reasonable parent or consumer (graphic blood, nudity, etc.). Advertisers should also consider that scenes spread over the course of a lengthy video game product can appear more intense when condensed into a 30-second TV spot or two-minute trailer, or when taken out of its original context.

When submitting trailers that feature gameplay footage, publishers should use discretion with respect to the nature of the trailer's content. Trailers that have excessive violence or blood and gore might be rejected regardless of whether or not they are consistent with the overall title. For example, trailers that have been cited by the ESRB as excessively violent included footage of characters being killed by head-shots and chainsaws. If the ESRB requests that content be removed from the Xbox Store, Business Operations will notify the publisher immediately but might remove the trailer from the Xbox Store before receiving a new trailer from the publisher.

#### Rating requirements for demos and betas 

For a demo/beta to be ESRB-compliant, it must display the appropriate ESRB Rating Pending logo *and/or* Rating Pending Notice at a 50% vertical height for four seconds prior to the beginning of the demo.

**Note** Demos/betas with the ESRB logo can be released in *only* the US and Canada because those are the only regions to which the ESRB ratings apply.

**Note** Exception for playable demos and betas (including demos that unlock into full games): Rating information is not required to be displayed on-screen ONLY IF the complete rating information (that is, rating category and, if assigned, content descriptors and the Online Rating Notice) is clearly displayed on the webpage or digital storefront and is visible to the user before the user accesses or downloads the demo. 

#### Enforcement and fines

ESRB provides regular reviews of Xbox Store content to ensure compliance with their rating requirements. Microsoft may remove content that has been reported as non-compliant.

#### Rating certificate expirations

Please note that the ESRB may require a title to be re-rated 10 years after the original certificate was issued if there are continued updates to a game. Examples include when the title releases a major update, expands to a new platform, or releases a new bundle offer. The 10-year limit on ratings only applies to games that were rated after April 1, 2018, when this policy was implemented.

<a id="europe-pegi"></a>

### Europe (PEGI)
----
*Authority:* Pan European Game Information

*Official Regions:* Albania, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Kosovo, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, the Netherlands, North Macedonia, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine and the United Kingdom. ([Source](https://pegi.info/page/pegi-organisation))

*Website:* <https://pegi.info/>

*Game Ratings Search:* <https://pegi.info/search-pegi>

*Contact Info:* <https://pegi.info/page/contact-us>

| Rating text | Audience |
|-|-| 
| **3** | Ages 3 and older | 
| **7** | Ages 7 and older | 
| **12** | Ages 12 and older | 
| **16** | Ages 16 and older | 
| **18** | Ages 18 and older |
| **!** (Parental Guidance) | Ages 12 and older |

#### Unofficial PEGI regions

Beyond the official regions, PEGI is also used by countries/regions such as Georgia, India, Liechtenstein and Türkiye.

#### Enforcement and fines

Penalties are usually only enforced for persistent violations.

#### PEGI:!
In addition to the numerical PEGI ratings, you will also see the "Parental Guidance Recommended" rating for some non-game apps, introduced by PEGI for storefronts that use IARC. These apps can offer a broad variety of user generated or curated content. For the purposes of parental controls, this rating is set to 12 years and older. 

#### Rating certificate expirations

Please note that PEGI may require a title to be re-rated 10 years after the original certificate was issued if there are continued updates to a game. Examples include when the title releases a major update, expands to a new platform, or releases a new bundle offer.

#### PEGI Provisional

PEGI Provisional can be used for unrated games that will acquire a long-form PEGI rating for the full release, and that aren't using the IARC system to generate a PEGI rating. Note that content descriptors can optionally be added when selecting a PEGI Provisional rating in Partner Center, but are not required. The PEGI Provisional rating must be replaced by the final long-form PEGI rating once it has been acquired.

Please reach out to PEGI directly for additional guidance and support on PEGI Provisional ratings.

#### New PEGI Rating Criteria (2026)

As of June 2026, PEGI has introduced the following new age rating criteria to address online interactive risks:

- **Purchases of in-game content:** Games with time-limited or quantity-limited offers will be classified with a PEGI 12. Games with NFTs or blockchain-related mechanisms will be PEGI 18.
- **Paid random items:** the default rating will be PEGI 16 if the game contains paid random items (and in some cases they can be a PEGI 18).
- **Play-by-appointment:** mechanisms that reward returning to the game (e.g. daily quests) will get a PEGI 7. If these mechanisms punish players for not returning (e.g. by losing content or reducing progress) they will become PEGI 12.
- **Safe online gameplay:** if games contain entirely unrestricted communication features (e.g. no blocking or reporting), they will be PEGI 18.

More information about PEGI's new rating criteria can be found [here](https://pegi.info/news/pegi-expands-age-rating-criteria-interactive-risk-categories).

<a id="germany-usk"></a>

### Germany (USK)
---
*Authority:* Unterhaltungssoftware Selbstkontrolle (Entertainment Software Self-Regulation)

*Website:* <https://usk.de/en/>

*Game Ratings Search:* <https://usk.de/en/?s&jump=usktitle&post_type=usktitle>

*Contact Info:* <https://usk.de/en/contact/>

|  Rating text                    | Audience |
|  ------------------------------ | ----------------------- |
|  **Ohne Altersbeschränkung**    | All ages |
|  **Freigegeben ab 6 Jahren**    | Ages 6 and older |
|  **Freigegeben ab 12 Jahren**   | Ages 12 and older |
|  **Freigegeben ab 16 Jahren**   | Ages 16 and older |
|  **Keine Jugendfreigabe**       | No release for minors |

#### Ratings verification

Games are rated by the USK if they are distributed on a disc. If a game is digital-only, IARC is used to generate a USK rating for Microsoft online storefronts.

#### USK requirements

Requirements for content in Germany fall into two categories: playable and non-playable.

Playable content includes full game titles and demos. Playable content falls into three ratings states: rated, rating pending, and rating denied.

#### Rated playable content

If playable content has received a rating from the USK, the game and associated content can be released to the Xbox Store for the respective age group.

-   For titles that received a rating for the full version, this rating can be applied to the demo version with similar content. The demo does not need to have a separate rating.
-   For titles that have been modified for the German market to receive an age rating, the demo needs to have the identical modifications (that is, similar content) or requires a separate rating.
-   For demo versions with a lower age rating than the final product, the lower age rating also applies to demos provided on the Xbox Store.

**Note** For digital games, a USK license can be used across platforms and is accepted for digital games on Xbox.

Example: A USK rating license for platform YYYY can be provided to be used on Xbox.

#### Xbox Series X\|S

For Xbox Series hardware, the USK has advised that the following scenarios are the only cases where an Xbox Series rating is required:
1. A new product for only the Xbox Series (standard procedure)
2. A new product with both Xbox One and Xbox Series on the disc (standard procedure)
3. An old product, with an existing Xbox One rating, that now gets an Xbox Series retail release (statement procedure)

#### Rating-denied playable content

If playable content has been denied a rating from the USK, the playable content and *all associated content* (including trailers, demos, and videos) *cannot* be released in Germany.

#### Rating-pending playable content

If playable content has not been rated by the USK, some non-playable content offers can be released. This includes trailers, demos, videos, and game add-ons.

If non-playable content is released in Germany and the associated playable content is later denied a rating, the non-playable content, except game add-ons, will immediately be pulled from the German Xbox Store and will not be re-released unless the denial is changed.

On a rating-pending title, the publisher must inform Microsoft immediately if a rating is denied.

-   On rating-pending titles that are overtly likely to get a "rating denied," Microsoft reserves the right to delay the release of non-playable content until there is an appropriate age rating.

#### Enforcement and fines

German laws for the protection of youth carry severe penalties for distributing inappropriate content to minors or for promoting inappropriate content altogether. Infringements can constitute criminal offenses or trigger administrative fines.

<a id="australia-acb"></a>

### Australia (ACB)
--------------------------------
*Authority:* Australian Classification Board (formerly COB)

*Website:* <https://www.classification.gov.au/>

*Game Ratings Search:* <https://www.classification.gov.au/classification-ratings>

*Contact Info:* <https://www.classification.gov.au/contact-us/contact-us-form>

|  Rating text   | Audience |
|  ------------- | -------- |
|  **CTC** (Check The Classification)       | Unclassified |
|  **G** (General)         | All ages <br/>(unrestricted) |
|  **PG** (Parental Guidance)        | Ages 8 and older <br/>(unrestricted) |
|  **M** (Mature)         | Ages 15 and older <br/>(unrestricted) |
|  **MA 15+** (Mature Accompanied)     | Ages 15 and older <br/>(legally restricted) |
|  **R 18+** (Restricted)      | Ages 18 and over <br/>(legally restricted) |
|  **E**         | Exempt |

Games released in Australia must be classified before being made available.

#### Approved tool certificates

The ACB now accept rating decisions by approved tools such as IARC as a valid classification for both digital and physical game releases. Note that this is only applicable in Australia. If a classification decision has not yet been made by IARC, then applicants do have the option to submit to the Classification Board. If the game has been previously classified by IARC, the developer needs to apply for a tool certificate from the board, which should be uploaded to Microsoft Partner Center as a manual rating. If the game has had major modifications, it would then also require a new classification decision.

#### Classification decisions

Only one Australian classification decision is needed for a computer game:
-   If the IARC decision comes first, it applies to all content (physical and digital) and the developer should apply for a certificate from the Board for the physical release. The tool decision that is published is taken to be final and a decision of the Board, but as with any decision made by a classification tool, the Board can use its discretion to review (and revoke) a tool decision at any time.
-   If the ACB decision comes first, it applies and should be used for both digital and physical releases. IARC decisions made AFTER a Board decision and which vary from the Board’s classification or consumer advice, will be changed to the Board’s classification.
-   If the physical game differs substantially from the originally classified digital version, the developer needs to get the modified version of the game classified.

<a id="new-zealand-oflc"></a>

### New Zealand (OFLC)
--------------------------------
*Authority:* Office of Film and Literature Classification (formerly FVLB, Film and Video Labelling Body)

*Website:* <https://www.classificationoffice.govt.nz/>

*Game Ratings Search:* <https://www.classificationoffice.govt.nz/find-a-rating/>

*Contact Info:* <https://www.classificationoffice.govt.nz/about/contact/>

|  Rating text   | Audience |
|-|-|
|  **G** (General)         | All ages <br/>(unrestricted) |
|  **PG** (Parental Guidance)       | Ages 8 and older <br/>(unrestricted) |
|  **M** (Mature)         | Ages 16 and older <br/>(unrestricted) |
|  **R** (Restricted)         | Special restrictions per rating <br/>(legally restricted) |
|  **R13, R15, R16, R18** (Restricted)       | 13, 15, 16 or 18 years and over <br/>(legally restricted) |
|  **RP13, RP16, RP18** (Restricted to Persons)       | Persons 18 years and over unless accompanied by a Parent/Guardian <br/>(legally restricted) |

#### Physical games

All restricted games must carry a New Zealand classification label. The OFLC website states that any game that meets any of the conditions below must be submitted for classification and carry a New Zealand rating label:

-   The game is restricted in Australia (classified as MA15+ or R18+)
-   The game has been refused classification (banned) in Australia or the UK
-   The game has been classified as 15, 18, or R18 in the UK*
-   The game has restricted content under New Zealand law

(*Note: the OFLC website refers to previous BBFC ratings rather than current PEGI ratings)

Unrestricted games do not need to carry classification labels because they are exempt from labelling requirements under section 8 of the Classification Act. This means that if the ACB rating is less than MA15+, that same ACB rating certificate can be used to release the physical version in New Zealand. In such a situation, it does not matter whether the ACB rating was provided after a full traditional submission to the Classification Board or via an approved tool certificate provided by the ACB after obtaining a rating via IARC.

#### Digital-only games

Digital-only releases to New Zealand will usually inherit the ACB rating assigned via IARC. In cases where the game has been refused classification in Australia, a generic IARC rating will display for New Zealand on our digital store.

<a id="brazil-djctq"></a>

### Brazil (DJCTQ)
-----

*Authority:* Department of Justice, Rating, Titles and Qualification (also known as Classificação Indicativa, abbreviated ClassInd)

*Website:* <https://www.gov.br/mj/pt-br/assuntos/seus-direitos/classificacao-1>

*Game Ratings Search:* <https://classindportal.mj.gov.br/consulta-jogos>

*Contact Info:* <classificacaoindicativa@mj.gov.br>

|  Rating text   | Audience |
|  ------------- | -------- |
|  **L**         | All ages |
|  **6**         | Ages 6 and older |
|  **10**        | Ages 10 and older |
|  **12**        | Ages 12 and older |
|  **14**        | Ages 14 and older |
|  **16**        | Ages 16 and older |
|  **18**        | Ages 18 and older |

#### Ratings process and verification

**Note** Within the DJCTQ certificate, "Classificação Sugerida" is understood as the suggested classification which is the assigned final rating. "Classificação Pretendida" is the desired classification and is not the official assigned rating.

The rating is only valid to the platform it was submitted to the DJCTQ, however if you need to add a platform to the game (with no modifications), you can contact DJCTQ and they will update the information about the platforms on their website at no cost. More specifically, you can add as many platforms as you wish on the initial submission.

#### DJCTQ 6 Rating

In 2026, DJCTQ added a '6' age rating to its existing ratings. This change applies to both long-form ratings and ratings assigned via IARC.

#### Loot boxes

Due to new regulations in Brazil, as of 2026, games supporting in-game purchases which include random items (loot boxes, card packs) are now required to be rated 18.

<a id="japan-cero"></a>

### Japan (CERO)
----

*Authority:* Computer Entertainment Rating Organisation

*Website:* <https://www.cero.gr.jp/en/>

*Game Ratings Search:* <http://www.cero.biz/search/>

*Contact Info (Note that CERO only supports queries in Japanese):* <https://www.cero.gr.jp/en/publics/index/5/>

|  Rating text   | Audience |
|  ------------- | -------- |
|  **A**         | All ages |
|  **B**         | Ages 12 and older |
|  **C**         | Ages 15 and older |
|  **D**         | Ages 17 and older |
|  **Z**         | Ages 18 and older |

#### Restriction for in-game content that is rated higher than the base game

Although the Xbox Store can now support in-game content that exceeds the rating of the base game, it is illegal to distribute such content to Japan. If you plan to create content that has a higher than the base game, please ensure that it will not be distributed to Japan.

#### Regarding CERO Z trailers and demos

The Microsoft Store does not allow CERO Z or IARC 18+ rated content to be distributed within Japan as part of a trailer or demo, even if the content is in line with the base game. This restriction is similar to the ESRB restriction regarding excessively violent content. Please ensure that you are not including Japan in the distribution regions for such content.

#### IARC for digital-only releases to Japan 

IARC ratings are accepted for digital-only releases to Japan, including for games rated IARC 18+. The same restriction for CERO Z titles applies to digital IARC 18+ titles, however, in that trailers and demos based on these titles will not be released on the Microsoft Store. CERO ratings are still required for disc releases.

Note that IARC 18+ games which are Free To Play are **NOT** allowed on the Japanese Microsoft Store.

#### Enforcement and fines

CERO conducts disciplinary meetings and levies fines for every violation.

<a id="south-korea-grac-gcrb"></a>

### South Korea (GRAC)
---------------

*Authorities:* Game Rating Administration Committee (formerly GRB, Game Rating Board) and Game Content Rating Board (GCRB)

*Websites:* <https://www.grac.or.kr/english/> and <https://www.gcrb.or.kr/English/default.aspx>

*Game Ratings Search:* <https://www.grac.or.kr/english/>

*Contact Info:* <rc.globalratings@grac.or.kr>

*More info:* <http://www.grac.or.kr/english/enforcement/enforcement.aspx>

|  Rating text           |Audience|
|  --------------------- |--------|
|  **전체 이용가**       |All ages|
|  **12세 이용가**       |Ages 12 and older|
|  **15세 이용가**       |Ages 15 and older|
|  **청소년 이용불가**   |Ages 19 and older (legally restricted)|

GCRB rates content at and below 19+, GRAC rates only 19+ content. Before January 2026, GCRB was limited to rating only games below 19+, but they have since expanded to also rating 19+ titles alongside GRAC. GRAC is the term used most commonly to refer to the South Korean age rating authority.

IMPORTANT NOTE: On January 9, 2024, the Enforcement Decree of the Game Act in Korea was revised, changing the rating of games not suitable for use by minors from 18 to 19. GRAC instructed digital storefronts to display the new 19 rating, instead of the previous GRAC 18 rating, for all applicable content. Furthermore, GRAC require that all new restricted packaged product in Korea must carry the 19 rating. However, in accordance with the supplementary provisions of the revised Enforcement Decree, existing 18-rated game products produced and distributed by January 8, 2024 may be marked with 18 or 19 until June 30, 2024.  

#### Certificate Requirements

A rating certificate is required at the time of certification submission when being distributed via disc. Digital-only content may obtain a rating via IARC, unless rated as 19 which then requires it to be rated by GRAC.

When releasing a game on multiple Xbox platforms (Xbox One, Xbox Series X\|S, Windows), one rating certificate is sufficient for all platforms, provided content remains the same on all platforms.

When releasing a game on multiple business platforms (Xbox, PlayStation, Switch), a "Platform Addition" certificate must be obtained from GRAC for each additional platform after obtaining the rating certificate for the primary platform.

For IARC-rated digital-only games releasing on multiple platforms, the existing certificate can be imported by using the IARC ID.

#### Age Validation and I-PIN

Since December 2012, all Xbox users in Korea are required to validate their age using I-PIN, or an equivalent age verification system. This is part of the profile setup process in Korea and is a requirement for accessing the Xbox network, formerly known as Xbox Live.

#### 19+ IARC-generated GRAC ratings

If the IARC-generated GRAC rating is 19+ the title will be **automatically blocked from the Xbox Store in Korea** until a traditional GRAC certificate is obtained and uploaded. For pre-orders, the "Rating Pending" option may be selected to enable sales in Korea, but only if there is intention to obtain a traditional GRAC rating for release. 

#### Requirement for in-game content rated higher than the base game

If any in-game content offer exceeds the rating of the base game, the publisher is required to obtain a rating specific to that content offer.

#### Enforcement and fines

Fines can be levied up to a maximum of KRW 20,000,000 or penal servitude of two years per violation.

#### Preorders

GRAC does not require that a rating is in place to enable pre-orders, even for mature titles, and does not offer a 'Rating Pending' option within their rating system.

If the product is expected to get traditional GRAC ratings for any reason including:
1. Will be sold on physical media
2. IARC did not generate GRAC ratings

Then Rating Pending should be selected in Partner Center. If your product receives an IARC-generated GRAC 19+ rating then selecting Rating Pending will prevent your pre-order from being auto-blocked for Korea, as products that are 'Not for youth' must obtain a traditional rating. Note that selecting Rating Pending will mean that your pre-order product displays with a generic IARC rating logo. Rating Pending should not be selected if there is no intention to get traditional ratings from GRAC.

#### GRAC audits

GRAC perform regular audits on the ratings of digital games. Games with IARC ratings flagged by GRAC as having inaccurate ratings may be temporarily withdrawn from the South Korean market until the IARC questionnaire is updated. In these instances, Microsoft will issue a store report notifying the account contact.

#### Guideline on the disclosure of probability information

The Enforcement Decree of the Act on the Promotion of the Game Industry of the Republic of Korea requires that games that offer "probabilistic items" must disclose the probability of obtaining items and adhere to the ["Guideline on the Disclosure of Probability Information"](https://www.grac.or.kr/board/Inform.aspx?searchtype=004&type=view&bno=823&searchtext=) available on the GRAC website.

<a id="taiwan-dgsc"></a>

### Taiwan (DGSC)
----

*Authority:* Digital Games Self-regulation Committee (Also known as TCA - Taipei Computer Association, TESRI - Taiwan Entertainment Software Rating Information, GSRR - Game Software Rating Regulation, and CSRR - Computer Software Rating Regulation)

*Website:* <https://www.gamerating.org.tw/>

*Game Rating Search:* <https://www.gamerating.org.tw/Search/Game>

*Contact Info:* <gameservice@gamerating.org.tw>

|  Rating text      |Audience|
|  ---------------- |--------|
|  **0+** (General)      |All ages|
|  **6+** (Protected)    |Ages 6 and over|
|  **12+** (PG12)         |Ages 12 and over|
|  **15+** (PG15)         |Ages 15 and over|
|  **18+** (Restricted)   |Ages 18 and over|

DGSC ratings are mandatory for all titles and content released in Taiwan, both retail and digital products must display DGSC ratings. On Microsoft digital store DGSC ratings are generated via IARC. Note that content descriptors and disclaimers for DGSC are now required.

All games are self-rated; that is, publishers are solely responsible for determining which ratings apply to their titles. Taiwan regulations require that the game rating and content descriptors are registered on the government website - this is a publisher responsibility. For physical distribution in Taiwan, publishers are advised to contact a local agent who charge per title. 

<a id="russia-pcbp"></a>

### Russia (PCBP)
----

*Authority:* Российская Система Возрастных Рейтингов (RARS, Russian Age Rating System)

*More Info:* <https://rg.ru/2012/07/30/zakon-dok.html>

|  Rating text   |Audience|
|  ------------- |--------|
|  **0**         |All ages|
|  **6**         |Ages 6 and older|
|  **12**        |Ages 12 and older|
|  **16**        |Ages 16 and older|
|  **18**        |Ages 18 and older|

RARS is used for all types of media (films, TV, video games, music, etc.) released in the Russian Federation. RARS is a self-rating system which relies on publishers rating their own content; this means there is no Russian ratings board. It is acceptable for publishers to self-rate for Russia, based on government guidance and/or their PEGI rating. Whilst a rating certificate is not required, it is a legal requirement in Russia that either a PCBP rating icon or PEGI rating icon is displayed on the packaging. Official government companies may perform retrospective checks to protect consumers and their legal rights and react to any complaints.

<a id="saudi-arabia-gmedia"></a>

### Saudi Arabia (Gmedia)
----

*Authority:* General Authority of Media Regulation (Also known as GAMR, formerly GCAM - General Commission for Audiovisual Media)

*Website:* <https://gmedia.gov.sa/en>

*Contact Info:* <https://gmedia.gov.sa/en/contact-us>

|  Rating text   |Audience|
|  ------------- |--------|
|  **3**         |Ages 3 and older|
|  **7**         |Ages 7 and older|
|  **12**        |Ages 12 and older|
|  **16**        |Ages 16 and older|
|  **18**        |Ages 18 and older|
|  **21**        |Ages 21 and older|

#### Gmedia and IARC

In 2026, Gmedia joined IARC. This means that Gmedia ratings for digital-only products on Microsoft storefronts will now be generated by taking the IARC questionnaire.

#### Gmedia Ratings on Boxed Products

-   All new-to-market, boxed, disc-based games releasing into Saudi Arabia will be required to show the Gmedia rating on the front of the packaging as part of the outer wrap artwork. 
-   The Gmedia rating is the only rating to be shown on the box in Saudi Arabia. Displaying other rating logos (for example ESRB or PEGI) is not allowed.
-   Console bundles will now use a sticker Gmedia rating when shipped into Saudi Arabia.
-   If a console is sold by itself, with no bundled game content, there is no need for an age rating icon. However, if the box displays other, non-Gmedia age rating icons, it is considered a violation.
-   The Gmedia rating should also be used for any in-store point of sale materials.
-   When releasing to Saudi Arabia on disc, a Gmedia rating certificate is required to provide at the time of certification submission.

#### Gmedia 21 Rating

In 2025, Gmedia added a 21 rating to its existing rating system.

<a id="united-arab-emirates-nma"></a>

### United Arab Emirates (NMA)
---

*Authority:* National Media Authority (formerly UAEMC - UAE Media Council, MRO - Media Regulatory Office, NMC - National Media Council)

*Website:* <https://nma.gov.ae/>

*Contact Info:* <https://nma.gov.ae/en/contact-us>

|  Rating text   |Audience|
|  ------------- |--------|
|  **3**         |Ages 3 and older|
|  **7**         |Ages 7 and older|
|  **12**        |Ages 12 and older|
|  **16**        |Ages 16 and older|
|  **18**        |Ages 18 and older|
|  **21**        |Ages 21 and older|

In January 2026, the board updated its name from the UAE Media Council to the National Media Authority.

The UAE Media Council was established in February 2023 by a Federal Decree Law. The UAE Media Council aims to coordinate media efforts at the federal and local levels in coordination with government media entities in the country and align media policies to  preserves UAE national identity.

All games released in a physical format in the UAE, including C2C (code to content) cards, must be rated by the NMA. All boxed products require the NMA rating printed on the box. Digital ONLY releases do not require a NMA rating and on our Store generic IARC ratings are displayed. 

<a id="chile-ccc"></a>

###  Chile (CCC)
----

*Authority:* Consejo de Calificación Cinematográfica

*More Info:* <https://www.bcn.cl/portal/leyfacil/recurso/calificacion-de-videojuegos>

| Rating text| Audience | ESRB Mapping
|---|---|---|
|**ER** |Games recommended for children and teenagers, educational content | N/A
|**TE**| All Ages | **EC** Early Childhood and **E** Everyone [All ages]
|**8+**| Ages 8 and older | **E10+** Everyone 10+ [Ages 10 and older]
|**14+**| Ages 14 and older | **T** Teen [Ages 13 and older]
|**18+** |Ages 18 and older | **M** Mature [Ages 17 and older] and **AO** Adults Only [18+]

The Cinematographic Qualification Council, which maintains its function of qualifying the films that are exhibited in Chile. The qualification consists of reviewing the video games and determining the age of those who can buy or lease them.

**What are the criteria for qualifying video games?**

The following categories are established:
* Video game especially recommended for children and adolescents: for containing educational material and no element inappropriate for their age.
* Video game without objectionable content: which can be seen by people of any age.
* Video game not recommended for children under 8 years: for containing a lower percentage of inappropriate language, sexual advances or violence.
* Video game not recommended for children under 14 years: for containing a moderate percentage of inappropriate language, sexual advances or violence.
* Video game not recommended for children under 18: for containing a significant percentage of vulgar language, explicit sexual material, frequent nudity or significant levels of violence.

**What happens if the video game comes with an age rating from the country/region in which it was produced?**

The qualification in Chile will not be necessary if the video game is already qualified from its country/region of origin, provided that the Cinematographic Qualification Council has recognized, by means of a resolution, that the criteria of that country/region are equivalent to those applied in Chile. On the Microsoft Store the Chile rating is mapped from the ESRB rating per the table above.

**What requirement is placed on video game manufacturers and importers?**

The manufacturers and importers of video games must place in the containers in which they market these products legends that clearly indicate the level of violence contained in the respective video game. That warning should occupy at least 25% of the space on both sides of the package or wrapping of the video game.

**How should manufacturers, importers and suppliers proceed to sell or rent video games?**

Manufacturers, importers, suppliers and traders may only sell and lease video games that were rated as not recommended for children under a certain age, to those who accredit to meet the required age. You should always require that the person in each sale or lease show their identity card.

**Are there penalties for anyone who sells or leases smaller video games that are restricted?** 

Yes, the infraction will be sanctioned by the competent local police judge, with a fine of 1 to 50 monthly tax units and video games will be confiscated.
 
In case of recidivism, the judge may apply twice the fine established for the respective infraction. The recidivism occurs when the infraction is repeated within the same year.

<a id="mexico-smeccv"></a>

### Mexico (SMECCV)
----

*Authority:* Sistema Mexicano de Equivalencias de Clasificación de los Contenidos de Videojuegos (Mexican System of Equivalences of Classification of Video Game Contents)

*More Info:* <https://www.dof.gob.mx/nota_detalle.php?codigo=5606047&fecha=27/11/2020>

|  Rating text   |Audience|ESRB Equivalent|
|  ------------- |--------|--------|
|  **A**         |Everyone|**E** Everyone|
|  **B**         |Ages 12 and older|**E10+** Everyone 10+ [Ages 10 and older] |
|  **B15**        |Ages 15 and older|**T** Teen [Ages 13 and older] |
|  **C**        |Ages 18 and older|**M** Mature [Ages 17 and older] |
|  **D**        |Adults only|**AO** Adults Only [Ages 18 and older] |

The Mexican Video Game Content Mapping Rating System applies only to packaged retail product and not digital storefronts. The video game rating regulations were published by the Ministry of Interior on Nov 27, 2020, and require that physical copies of games are labelled under the plastic wrapping of the game package with the new Mexican rating icons from August 2021.

Mexico use a rating equivalency system that maps a SMECCV rating to an ESRB rating, although the respective age thresholds do not match in all cases. SMECCV content descriptors and interactive elements are an exact mapping of the ESRB (Spanish) equivalent. Label dimensions are also equivalent. Age rating certificates will not be issued by SMECCV, publishers should continue to upload ESRB age rating certificates to Partner Center. 

Note that displaying both an ESRB rating and a SMECCV rating on packaging is prohibited.

<a id="south-africa-fpb"></a>

### South Africa (FPB)
----

*Rating Authority:* Film and Publication Board

*Website:* <https://www.fpb.org.za/>

*Contact Info:* <https://www.fpb.org.za/contact/>

|  Rating text   |Audience|
|  ------------- |--------|
|  **PG**         |All ages|
|  **7-9 PG**     |Ages 7 and older|
|  **10-12 PG**   |Ages 10 and older|
|  **13**        |Ages 13 and older|
|  **16**        |Ages 16 and older|
|  **18**        |Ages 18 and older|

An FPB rating is required for all physical releases sold in South Africa, including C2C cards, and must be displayed on the packaging. For digital releases, a PEGI certificate is also acceptable to be uploaded in Partner Center for South Africa as the console will default to PEGI if the FPB isn't present.

<a id="china-cadpa-hong-kong-macao"></a>

### China (CADPA), Hong Kong SAR and Macao SAR
----

*Rating Authority:* China Audio-Video and Digital Publishing Association (CADPA)

There is currently no mandatory legal requirement for video game ratings in China. The China Audio-Video and Digital Publishing Association (CADPA), a government-backed industry group, revealed a pilot content rating system in December 2020 called the Online Game Age-Appropriateness Warning system. The industry standard issued by CADPA divides games into three age categories: eight, 12 and 16 and older, represented by green, blue and yellow labels respectively. However, this standard is not a mandatory legal requirement. The Xbox digital store displays generic IARC as there is no other official rating system to use.

**Releasing games in China**

The Chinese government has a tailor-made process that publishers must follow to legally enter the market. That includes non-Chinese companies partnering with a Chinese-owned partner. The Ministry of Culture (MOC) and General Administration of Press and Publication (GAPP) are no longer handling game censorship review for China. The Chinese government has assigned the Central Bureau of Communications and Propaganda to handle game reviews.  

**Hong Kong SAR and Macao SAR**

Hong Kong SAR and Macao SAR don't have a game classification system. However, games that aren't suitable for minors must include warnings. There are no specific legal provisions, registrations, or licenses required to operate and release mobile games and online computer games in Hong Kong SAR. Any items that appear in the game are subject to 'obscene and indecent item control regulations'.


<a id="singapore-imda"></a>

### Singapore (IMDA)
----

*Rating Authority:* Infocomm Media Development Authority

*Website:* <https://imdaonline.imda.gov.sg/classification/>

*Game Rating Search:* <https://imdaonline.imda.gov.sg/classification/Search/VideoGames/Default.aspx>

*Contact Info:* <https://www.imda.gov.sg/Who-We-Are/contact-us>

*More Info:* <https://www.imda.gov.sg/regulations-and-licensing-listing/content-standards-and-classification/standards-and-classification/video-games>

|  Rating text   |Audience|
|  ------------- |--------|
|  **ADV16**     |Ages 16 and older|
|  **M18**       |Ages 18 and older|

The Infocomm Media Development Authority (IMDA) is a statutory board of the Singapore government, under the Ministry of Communications and Information. Founded in 2016, the IMDA regulates infocomm and media sectors and is the Singaporean video game rating authority. The Video Games Classification system is made up of the Advisory 16 (Suitable for 16 and Above) and M18 ratings.

**Submission requirements**

The standard submission process applies to all FPP (Full Packaged Product) releases. IMDA requires the ESRB submission form and game video to be submitted if the PEGI rating is 16 or 18. C2C cards are **not** considered an FPP release and do not require age ratings submission.  

**New game content and DLC requirements**

A separate submission is required for new content except for DLC content which won't impact the rating level.

**Additional platforms requirements**

Separate submission is required if a new platform is added later.

**Packaging requirements**

IMDA reviews all titles across the full age range, but only require over-stickering on boxed product for games rated ADV16 (Advisory 16) or M18 (Mature 18). This means that for titles lower than 16, there is no strict deadline to get the rating as it is not needed for certification or packaging. For ratings lower than ADV16, the boxed copy would not be over-stickered and would instead show an ESRB or PEGI rating.

Singapore ratings are displayed as IARC generic on Microsoft online storefronts.

<a id="ireland-ifco"></a>

### Ireland (IFCO)
----

*Authority:* Irish Film Classification Office

*Website:* <https://www.ifco.ie/>

*Contact Info:* <info@ifco.gov.ie>

#### Rating verification

Games that are rated PEGI 18 **and** are being released physically in Ireland, must be submitted to IFCO for legal classification 3-4 weeks prior to release. Application forms to legally classify a game prior to release in Ireland can be obtained from the IFCO website: [www.ifco.ie](https://www.ifco.ie/). If IFCO approves the game, the Games Rating Authority (GRA) will update the game’s existing PEGI license with the Ireland rating. This update removes the question mark next to the Ireland region in the Age Ratings section of the license and adds Ireland to the list of covered countries. IFCO does not use bespoke classification symbols, instead the use of PEGI rating logos and descriptors should be used for all game packaging.

If IFCO does not approve the game, the game is effectively banned in Ireland.

IFCO only classifies games rated PEGI 18 which are releasing on disc in Ireland. Submission to IFCO is not required for digital-only games, games which are rated below PEGI 18, or code-to-content (C2C) cards.

Please note that IFCO is not a supported rating authority in Partner Center. Disc ratings for games releasing in Ireland rely on the disc’s PEGI rating.

<a id="indonesia-igrs"></a>

### Indonesia (IGRS)
----

*Authority:* Indonesia Game Rating System

*Website:* <https://igrs.id/>

*Contact Info:* <https://igrs.id/contact-us>

|  Rating text   |Audience|
|  ------------- |--------|
|  **3+**       |Ages 3 and above|
|  **7+**       |Ages 7 and above|
|  **13+**      |Ages 13 and above|
|  **15+**      |Ages 15 and above|
|  **18+**      |Ages 18 and above|

In 2026, IGRS was established and joined IARC. The Indonesia Game Rating System (IGRS) implements a game classification process that aims to determine the appropriate age rating for every game to be released in Indonesia. This process is designed to ensure that every game available is appropriate for the age and cultural values of Indonesian society, as well as to provide clear guidance for users, especially parents, in choosing games that are safe for children to play.

Digital-only products releasing on Microsoft storefronts will be assigned an IGRS rating by completing the IARC questionnaire.

<a id="timelines-and-test-cases"></a>

## Timelines and test cases

#### Timeline guide

| Region/Authority | Submission Complete Guide Timings | Game Builds Required | Other Submission Requirements |
|-|-|-|-|
| **North America (ESRB)**        | RTC -11 Weeks    | Yes                   | Video and language scripts/examples   | 
| **South Korea (GRAC/GCRB)**     | RTC -9 Weeks     | Yes                   | Video                                 |
| **South Africa (FPB)**          | RTC -9 Weeks     | Yes                   | Video, screenshots, game description  |
| **Europe (PEGI)**               | RTC -7 Weeks     | Yes                   | Video, screenshots, game description  |
| **Germany (USK)**               | RTC -7 Weeks     | Yes                   | Video, German UI text and script      |
| **Australia (ACB/COB)**         | RTC -7 Weeks     | Yes                   | Video                                 |
| **New Zealand (OFLC/FVLB)**     | RTC -7 Weeks     | Yes                   | Video                                 |
| **Singapore (IMDA)**            | RTC -7 Weeks     | No                    | ESRB Submission Form, Video           |
| **Japan (CERO)**                | RTC -7 Weeks     | No                    | Video                                 |
| **Brazil (DJCTQ)**              | RTC -4 Weeks     | No                    | Video, screenshots, game description  |
| **Saudi Arabia (Gmedia)**       | RTC -4 Weeks     | No                    | Video, screenshots, game description  |
| **United Arab Emirates (NMA)**  | RTC -4 Weeks     | No                    | Video, screenshots, game description  |
| **Republic of Ireland (IFCO)**  | RTC -4 Weeks     | Yes (if PEGI 18)      | Video, screenshots, game description  |
| **ALL RATING CERTIFICATES DUE** | **RTC -3 Weeks** | **-**                 | **-**                                 |
| **Taiwan (DGSC)**          | Self-rated       | -                     | -                                     |
| **Russia (PCBP)**               | Self-rated       | -                     | -                                     |

**RTC** = Release to Certification (aka RTX, Release to Xbox). This is RTM minus approximately two weeks. The game must pass certification before going to manufacturing. 

**RTM** = Release to Manufacturing. This is RTC plus approximately two weeks. This is when discs and packaging are created. 

#### Test cases

**017-01 Age Rating Validation**   
>**NOTE**: For digital only titles or for testing without green discs please instead refer to test case BVT 000-13.
  
>**Configuration:**  
>1. The title must be a disc submission and test discs must be available to run Test Steps #2 and #3.
>* Final (Base/Content Update) - Certificates are required for all locales that require a certificate.
>* Out of Scope/No Testing required - DLC, in-game content, titles that cannot launch without a connection to Xbox Live services.
>2. The Submission Materials (Certificates)
>3. Title's age ratings as declared in Microsoft Partner Center
>
>**Test steps**  
 >1. Perform a comparison of the ratings values in Microsoft Partner Center against the ratings certificates supplied in the title's submission materials, and vice versa. This is done to make sure that each ratings value has a corresponding certificate and that each certificate is accounted for in Partner Center.
>* All ratings values in Partner Center should have a matching certificate. If any do not, this possibly highlights a mistake and must therefore be escalated.
>2. TEST DISCS REQUIRED - Insert the disc media into a dedicated offline console set to RETAIL and install the title, ensuring that the console is not connected to Xbox Live services at any point during test.
>3. For each ratings body supported by the title: set the offline console to one Location/Country governed by that ratings body within the console Settings, sign into an Xbox profile with the corresponding age restriction enabled, and launch the title to verify that:
>* The system challenges the user if the profile's age rating value is set lower than the title's age rating certificate.
>* The system does not challenge the user and the title boots beyond the first legal/license screen if the profile's age rating value is equal to the title's age rating certificate.
>
>**Expected result**  
> With a console Location matching each of the supported age-rating regions of the title:
>* The title must challenge the user when launched with a console age rating value that is set lower than the title's age rating certificate value.
>* The title must boot without challenging the user when launched with an age rating value that is set equal to the title's age rating certificate value.


**BVT-13 Age Rating Validation**   
  
>**Configuration:**
>1. Title must be Final (Base or Content Update).
>* Final (Base/Content Update) - Certificates are required for all locales that require a certificate.
>* Out of Scope - DLC, In game Content - no testing required.
>2. Submission Materials are available for review.
>3. Access to the product age ratings in Microsoft Partner Center
>
>**Test steps**  
>1. Verify the following documents/information is available:
>* Submission Validator log for the submission's XVC
>* Age rating declarations in Partner Center
>* Age Rating certificates.
>2. Open the Submission Validator log file and ensure that no warnings or failures for the \<component\>Manifest-Ratings\</component\> test are displayed .
>* For all titles certified after May 11, 2020: A ratings element must not be present within the AppxManifest.
>* For titles certified prior to May 11, 2020: A ratings element is allowed to be present within the AppxManifest.
>3. Open Partner Center to review the product's age rating information
>* For each value displayed verify a corresponding rating certificate has been provided which matches the age rating exactly.
>
>**Expected result**  
>1. All these files must be supplied and must be relevant to this submission type.
>2. All ratings must have a corresponding certificate supplied 
>3. Base final submissions in certification after May 11, 2020, must not have an age ratings element defined in the AppxManifest.
>4. Content updates for titles certified before May 11, 2020, must not add or remove ratings from the AppxManifest except to completely remove the ratings element.

#### Questions

For any questions, please contact <agepc@microsoft.com>.
