---
title: "XR-048 Profile Settings Usage"
author: LukeCraw
ms.author: lukecr
ms.topic: article
description: "Titles must not store users' information sourced from the Xbox network, such as profile data, preferences, or gamertags, beyond a locally stored cache intended to support scenarios of network disconnection."
kindex: XR-048 Profile Settings Usage
edited: 10/01/2024
ms.date: '08/01/2022'
permissioned-type: public
---

# XR-048: Profile Settings Usage \*

Version 2.0, 10/01/2024

The Xbox network is the source of truth for Xbox user profile information. To support this, titles must not store users’ information sourced from the Xbox network, such as profile data, preferences, or gamertags, beyond a locally stored cache intended to support scenarios of network disconnection. Any offline caches must be updated upon the next available connection to the service.

## More Information

### Exemptions
 This requirement does not apply to scenarios in which a gamertag is displayed or used in a recorded experience such as a video or screenshot.

## Certification Test Cases

**048-01 Profile Settings Usage**  

**Configuration**:
* 2 Xbox devices
  
**Test Steps**  
1. Select a profile and create a save.
2. Change user profile data, including updating a gamertag or account name.
3. Boot the title and load the save made in Step [2].
4. Verify that the user-profile data visible during gameplay have changed and are not stored in the save game. 
5. Verify that any reference to the gamertag (created automatically by the title) has been updated. This includes any reference on server-hosted functionality as well as any reference within the title.
6. Boot the title on a second device and verify the updated gamertag is displayed correctly.

**Expected Result**  
User-profile data must not be stored. For instance, if the title uses the gamertag in-game (like in a welcome message) or on a non-Xbox server (such as naming uploaded data), it must not persist if the user changes their gamertag. This does not apply if the user has manually entered the gamertag.

**Pass Examples**  
1. User-profile data and preference settings are updated in all displays after they have been changed.  

**Fail Examples**  
1. The title does not display the user's updated gamertag or Microsoft account name either within the title or on Xbox Home for locally stored save data such as replays, saves, options, maps, and teams. 
2. The title does not update a user's gamertag for persistent posts, such as game clips, replays, leaderboards, or other custom posts, such as messages, bulletin posts, user challenges, costumes, themes, livery, tournaments, and league.
Note: This applies to both new and previously created posts.
3. The title stores the user's gamertag for the user's saved data, such as replays, saves, options, maps, and teams, resulting in the save data becoming unusable if the user changes their gamertag or account name.
