---
title: "XR-047 User Profile Access"
author: LukeCraw
ms.author: lukecr
ms.topic: article
description: "Titles must give users the option to access other Xbox Live users gamercards wherever users display names are enumerated."
kindex:
- XR-047 User Profile Access
- gamercard access
- profile card
edited: 03/01/2025
ms.date: 08/01/2022
permissioned-type: public
---

# XR-047: User Profile Access \*

Version 1.2, 03/01/2025

Titles must give users the option to access other Xbox network users' gamercards (user profiles) wherever users' display names are enumerated.

## More Information 
Consistent gamercard access helps maintain a cohesive platform ecosystem and provides users with a reliable means of accessing both Xbox social features and safety options. Examples of where this requirement applies include leaderboards, session lobbies, post-game statistics, and other in-game menus. 

To perform this action, titles must use the `XGameUiShowPlayerProfileCardAsync` on consoles, and when developing for Windows, the `ShowProfileCardUIAsync` API. For more information about these APIs, see the development documentation for your target platform.

### Exemptions

This requirement does not apply when displaying names in areas where UI navigation is not feasible. Examples include:  
* Static loading screens that lack any interactivity or user input
* Heads-up displays during active gameplay

> [!Important]
>This exemption does not extend to leaderboards and menus, including leaderboards and menus surfaced as navigable overlays during active gameplay. 
>
>XR-047 requirements are not nullified by selectively disabling/not enabling navigation in locations where navigable UI is otherwise reasonably expected. If navigation is not feasible in an in-scope location, please submit an exception request.  

### Implementation Guidance and Best Practices

In the event a title uses a display name other than Xbox gamertag, gamercard access is still required between Xbox users.  

The availability of title-level safety options (reporting, muting, etc.) and social features does not negate the need for gamercard access between Xbox users. 

### Certification Test Cases

#### 047-01 User-Profile Access

**Test Steps**  
1. Devices 1 and 2: Boot the title.
2. Devices 1 and 2: Sign in to an Xbox profile.
3. Device 1: Set up an Xbox multiplayer game session.
4. Device 2: Find and join the game session created by console 1.
5. Verify the following after device 2 has joined the game session:
    * From the pre-game lobby, access another Xbox user's gamercard by selecting the gamertag or username.
    * During gameplay, attempt to access another Xbox user's gamercard by selecting the user's username or gamertag (this may or may not be possible, depending on the title).
    * From the post-game statistics screen, access another Xbox user's gamercard by selecting the user's username or gamertag.
    * From the leaderboards area, access another Xbox user’s gamercard by selecting the user's username or gamertag.
    * Find any other area where gamertags are listed, and attempt to access another Xbox user's gamercard by selecting the user's username or gamertag.

**Expected Result**    
It is expected that the user will be able to view the other Xbox user's gamercard information.

**Pass Examples**  
1. A user is able to access another Xbox user's gamercard in all locations where gamertags are displayed and UI navigation is enabled.
2. A user is able to access another Xbox user's gamercard in leaderboards, session lobbies, post-game statistics, and other in-game menus regardless if UI navigation is enabled.

**Fail Example**  
1. A user is unable to access another Xbox user's gamercard in any location where gamertags are displayed and UI navigation is available.
2. A user is unable to access another Xbox user's gamercard in leaderboards, session lobbies, post-game statistics, and other in-game menus regardless if UI navigation is enabled.