---
title: "XR-123 Installation/Unlock of Game Add-Ons or Consumables During Gameplay"
author: M-Stahl
ms.topic: article
description: "Titles that offer downloadable content (DLC) must allow users to download/unlock and use the content without having to terminate and relaunch the game."
kindex: XR-123 Installation/Unlock of Game Add-Ons or Consumables During Gameplay
edited: 00/00/0000
ms.date: '08/01/2022'
permissioned-type: public
---

# XR-123: Installation/Unlock of Game Add-Ons or Consumables During Gameplay \*

Version 2.0, 11/01/2025

Titles that offer downloadable content (DLC) must allow users to download/unlock and use the content without having to terminate and relaunch the game.

For more information on accessing and enumerating DLC in game, read the [Downloadable content (DLC) packages section](../../../features/common/packaging/packaging-downloadable-content-dlc.md)

## More Information

Titles should subscribe to DLC arrival events and respond to them by allowing players to consume the content within the game. This includes all scenarios in which the download and installation are completed during active gameplay, or while the title is either suspended or constrained.

Titles can choose to prompt a user to return to a menu through an in-game prompt to load new DLC.

Titles that use DLC to unlock content in the main game package must be tolerant of cases where the main game package is still installing and the supporting content isn't yet available. In such cases, users should be able to see that they have access to the DLC, and if they try to play it, the title should inform the user that the title is still installing content.

## Intent
Users who purchase additional content for games should be able to consume it seamlessly, without disrupting their in-game experience.

## Certification Test Cases

### 123-01 Installation/Unlock of Game Add-Ons or Consumables During Gameplay

On retail consoles, a game will be suspended under the following conditions:

   * When the console enters Connected Standby by being turned off with the power mode set to Instant-on.
   * When the game remains out of focus for ten minutes. For example, launching an application such as Settings and keeping it in focus for ten minutes.

For the purposes of this test case, both methods should be verified at step 7.  

**Test Steps**

1. Launch the title and proceed into active gameplay.
2. Initiate a game add-on or consumable purchase from the Xbox Store.
3. Allow the background download to complete.
4. Ensure that the user is able to continue with gameplay and the title is not affected by the background download completing.
5. Ensure that the content can be used without having to terminate and relaunch the game.
6. Repeat steps 1-5 with the download completing while the title is constrained.
7. Repeat steps 1-5 with the download completing while the title is suspended.
8. If the title supports an in-game store feature, repeat steps 1-5 using this feature to initiate an add-on or game download.  

**Expected Result**  
Titles that offer game add-ons or consumables must allow users to download/unlock and use the content without having to terminate and relaunch the game.  

**Pass Examples**

1. The user is able to download and use the content without having to terminate and relaunch the game.
2. The title prompts a user to return to a menu through an in-game prompt to load the new DLC.  

**Fail Examples**

1. The user must terminate and re-launch the game in order to use the content.  

### 123-02 Installation/Unlock of Game Add-Ons or Consumables as Part of Main Game Package During Streaming Install

**Test Steps**

1. Validate that the title supports game add-on or consumable.
2. Install game add-on or consumable of each type ahead of the full game's installation.
3. Begin installing the main game package and launch from the initial play marker (if a play marker is supported).
4. Attempt to use the DLC before the title finishes installing.  

**Expected Result**  
The user should be able to see that they have access to the game add-on or consumable, and if they try to play it, the title must either allow use or inform the user that the title must fully install before the DLC can be used.  

**Pass Examples**  
1. The user can see they have access to the content.
2. If the user tries to play the content, they are notified the title is still installing.  

**Fail Examples**  
1. The content is not visible.
2. The content is visible but no reason is given when the user tries to play the content.  